latex2rtf(1)                                                      latex2rtf(1)



NAME
       latex2rtf ‚àí Convert a LaTeX file to an RTF file

SYNTAX
       latex2rtf  [‚ÄêhlpFSV] [ ‚Äêd# ] [ ‚ÄêM# ] [ ‚Äêa auxfile ] [ ‚Äêb bblfile ] [ ‚ÄêC
       codepage ] [ ‚ÄêD dots_per_inch ] [ ‚Äêi language ] [ ‚Äêo outputfile ] [  ‚ÄêP
       /path/to/cfg ] [ inputfile ]


DESCRIPTION
       The  latex2rtf  command converts a LaTeX file into RTF text format. The
       text and much of the formatting information is translated to RTF.

       ‚à‚àía auxfile
              Used to specify a particular cross‚Äêreferencing file.  When  this
              option  is  omitted,  the  auxfile  is assumed to be the same as
              inputfile with the .tex suffix replaced by .aux.

       ‚à‚àíb bblfile
              Used to specify a particular bibliography file When this  option
              is  omitted,  the bblfile is assumed to be the same as inputfile
              with the .tex suffix replaced by .bbl.

       ‚à‚àíC codepage
              used to specify the character set (code page) used in the  LaTeX
              document  for  non‚Äêansi  characters.  codepage may be one of the
              following: ansinew,  applemac,  cp437,  cp437de,  cp850,  cp852,
              cp855,  cp865,  cp866, decmulti, cp1250, cp1252, koi8‚Äêr, koi8‚Äêu,
              latin1, latin2, latin3, latin4, latin5, latin9, maccyr,  macukr,
              next,  raw,  raw437, raw852, raw1250, raw1251, and raw1253.  The
              default behavior is to use ansinew (same as cp1252).  For conve‚Äê
              nience, just the numbers 437, 437de, 850, 852, 855, 866, 1250 or
              1252 may be specified.

              The raw character set  encoding  prevents  any  8‚Äêbit  character
              translation.  The RTF file is marked to use the same encoding as
              the default encoding for the program interpreting the RTF  file.
              This is particularly useful when translating a file written in a
              language (e.g., czech) that maps poorly into the ansinew  (west‚Äê
              ern european) character set.


       ‚à‚àíd#    Write  extra  debugging  output to stderr.  Higher numbers cause
              more debugging output and  range  from  0  (only  errors)  to  6
              (absurdly  many messages). The default is 1 (Warnings and Errors
              only).

       ‚à‚àíD dots_per_inch
              Used to specify the number of dots per inch  in  equations  that
              are  converted  to  bitmaps  and  for graphics that must be con‚Äê
              verted.  Default is 300 dpi.

       ‚à‚àíF     use LaTeX to create bitmaps for all figures.  This may help when
              figures are not translated properly.

       ‚à‚àíh     Print a short usage note

       ‚à‚àíi language
              used  to  set  the  idiom or language used in the LaTeX document
              language may be one of the following afrikaans, bahasa,  basque,
              brazil,   breton,   catalan,  croatian,  czech,  danish,  dutch,
              english, esperanto, estonian, finnish, french, galician, german,
              icelandic,   irish,italian,   latin,  lsorbian,  magyar,  norsk,
              nynorsk, polish, portuges, romanian, russian,  samin,  scottish,
              serbian,  slovak,  slovene, spanish, swedish, turkish, usorbian,
              welsh.  The default is english.

       ‚à‚àíl     Assume LaTeX source uses ISO 8859‚Äê1 (Latin‚Äê1) special characters
              (default behavior).

       ‚à‚àío outputfile
              Redirect  output to outputfile Unless an outputfile is specified
              with the ‚Äêo option, the resulting RTF is produced in a file with
              .tex replaced by .rtf.

       ‚à‚àíM#    where  #  selects  the  type of equation conversion.  ‚ÄêM3 is the
              default and converts both inline and displayed equations to RTF.
              ‚ÄêM6  converts inline equations to RTF and displayed equations to
              bitmaps. ‚ÄêM12 converts inline and displayed  equations  to  bit‚Äê
              maps.   Bitmap  conversion  requires a working latex2png script.
              Producing bitmaps is slow.

       ‚à‚àíp     do not quote printed parentheses in  mathematical  formulas,  as
              some  versions  of  Word (e.g Word 2000) have deep psychological
              problems with EQ fields using quoted parentheses.  If Word  dis‚Äê
              plays  some  formulas  with  parentheses  as  ‚ÄôError!‚Äô, try this
              option.  See also the ‚ÄêS option.

       ‚à‚àíP /path/to/cfg
              used to specify the  directory  that  contains  the  @code{.cfg}
              files

       ‚à‚àíS     Use  semicolons  to  separate  arguments in RTF fields.  This is
              needed when the machine opening the RTF file has  a  version  of
              Word  that  uses  commas  for decimal points.  This also can fix
              displaying some formulas as ‚ÄôError!‚Äô  You may also need  to  try
              the ‚Äêp option.

       ‚à‚àíV     Prints version on standard output and exits.

       ‚à‚àíW     Emit  warnings  directly in RTF file.  Handy for catching things
              that do not get translated correctly.

       ‚à‚àíZ#    Add # close braces to end of RTF file.  (Handy when file is  not
              converted  correctly  and  will not open in another word proces‚Äê
              sor.)

CONFIGURATION FILES
       The configuration files are searched first in any  directory  specified
       by  ‚ÄêP, then in the location specified by the environment variable RTF‚Äê
       PATH, and finally in the location CFGDIR specified when  latex2rtf  was
       compiled.   If  the  configuration  files  are not found then latex2rtf
       aborts.  The configuration files allow additional fonts  to  be  recog‚Äê
       nized,  additional  simple  commands  to be translation, and additional
       commands to be ignored.

CAUTION
       The input file must be a valid LaTeX file. Use LaTeX to  find  and  fix
       errors before converting with latex2rtf.

       The  configuration  files  direct.cfg  and fonts.cfg are in the correct
       directory.  You may have to change fonts.cfg or direct.cfg to suit your
       needs.

BUGS
       Some might consider RTF to be a bug.

       Some environments are currently ignored.

       Translation without a LaTeX generated .aux file is poor.

REPORTING BUGS
       Report   bugs   to   to  the  bug  tracking  system  at  http://source‚Äê
       forge.net/projects/latex2rtf/.  Only report bugs for the latest version
       of latex2rtf that is available.  Please identify your operating system.


       If the program produces wrong output or does not work for you,  INCLUDE
       A  SHORT  LATEX  FILE  that  demonstrates the problem.  The shorter the
       LaTeX file, the quicker your bug will get addressed.  Bug reports  with
       non‚Äêexistent  LaTeX  files  are not welcomed by the developers.  Do not
       bother to send RTF files, since these are usually unhelpful.

SEE ALSO
       latex(1), rtf2LaTeX2e(1), LaTeX User‚Äôs  Guide  &  Reference  Manual  by
       Leslie Lamport

       For   complete,   current   documentation,   refer  to  the  Info  file
       latex2rtf.info,  the  PDF  file  latex2rtf.pdf   or   the   HTML   file
       latex2rtf.html   which   are   made   from   the  TeXInfo  source  file
       latex2rtf.texi.




                                                                  latex2rtf(1)
